CLDR-17842 Add semantic skeleton spec text (#4031)
unicode-org/cldr: docs/ldml/tr35-dates.md

Note: A _calendar period_ is distinct from a _date_ because it cannot be paired with time to form a composite field set.

##### <a name="Semantic_Time_Field_Sets" href="#Semantic_Time_Field_Sets">Time Field Sets</a>

A _time field set_ refers to a particular time of day. Low-order fields, such as the minute or second, could be omitted.

The fields that may be included in a time field set are:

1. **Hour:** The hour, possibly with a day period, depending on factors such as the length, locale, and hour cycle locale keyword.
2. **Minute:** The minute within an hour.
3. **Second:** The second within a minute, a decimal number that may include fractional digits. See the [Fractional Second Digits](#Semantic_Skeleton_Fractional_Second_Digits) option.

The valid time field sets are in the following table:

| Field Set                | Example (en-US) | Example (en-GB) |
|--------------------------|-----------------|-----------------|
| { Hour }                 | 4 pm            | 16h             |
| { Hour, Minute }         | 4:03 pm         | 16:03           |
| { Hour, Minute, Second } | 4:03:51 pm      | 16:03:51        |

> Note: Minute and Second are not valid time field sets on their own because they do not refer to a particular time of day. They must be interpreted in the context of an explicit hour.

Reviewer: Add a note somewhere that formatting **durations**, like 3 minutes 12 seconds (or 3:12) is not handled through the  Skeleton mechanisms.

| Date + Time Zone        | { Month, Day, Zone }       | January 1, PT        |
| Date + Time + Time Zone | { Month, Day, Hour, Zone } | January 1 at 4 pm PT |
| Time + Time Zone        | { Hour, Zone }             | 4 pm PT              |

Note: "Date + Time Zone" is a valid combination because it refers to a specific span of time. "January 1, PST" refers to the span of time starting at `01-01T00:00-0800` and ending before `01-02T00:00-0800` (with an implied year).

Note: This table may be extended in the future to include additional combinations.

#### <a name="Semantic_Skeleton_Options" href="#Semantic_Skeleton_Options">Semantic Skeleton Options</a>

A semantic skeleton associates fields with zero or more options, listed in this section. Options apply to specific fields, and they should not be specified if their respective fields are not in the field set. Some options have a default value.

##### <a name="Semantic_Skeleton_Length" href="#Semantic_Skeleton_Length">Length</a>

**Required Fields: Year, Month, Day, Weekday, Hour, or Zone**

**Default Value: Medium**

The _length_ determines how wide the fields should be rendered. There are three choices:

> 1. **Long:** Much space is available. Fields are typically spelled-out. Example: January 1, 2000

Reviewer: Add more examples for each case, and set them off. 
```suggestion
1. **Long:** Much space is available. Fields are typically spelled-out. 
    - Examples: January 1, 2000 or 250 BCE
```

Note: Additional lengths could be added in the future, such as "narrow" or "conversational".

##### <a name="Semantic_Skeleton_Alignment" href="#Semantic_Skeleton_Alignment">Alignment</a>

**Required Fields: Year, Month, Day, or Hour**

**Default Value: Inline**

The _alignment_ provides additional context that can be used for determining how to display certain fields, particularly numeric ones. There are two choices:

1. **Inline:** The text will be displayed in a paragraph, label, heading, or similar context.
2. **Column:** The text will be displayed vertically in a column-like layout or similar context where similar rendered widths are preferred.

Note: The most common behavior with "column" alignment is for implementations to render a minimum of two digits on impacted fields. For example, an implementation might render "01/01/2000" instead of "1/1/2000" in US English.

##### <a name="Semantic_Skeleton_Year_Style" href="#Semantic_Skeleton_Year_Style">Year Style</a>

**Required Field: Year**

**Default Value: Auto**

The _year style_ defines the level of precision to use when displaying the year. There are three choices:

> 1. **Auto:** Display the year with full or partial precision, and display the era if needed to disambiguate the year, depending on locale, calendar, and length. Example: Jan. 1, '00

Reviewer: Use ‘00 instead of '00; add another example esp for Auto. We need to make sure that people are not mislead into thinking that Auto is confined.
```suggestion
1. **Auto:** Display the year with full or partial precision, and display the era if needed to disambiguate the year, depending on locale, calendar, and length. Example: Jan. 1, ‘00 or 1 January 2000
```

Now that I think about it, it might be clearer with a little table for each of the style options, instead of a numbered list.

Author: I used a lot of tables, but I didn't here because there was too much inline text, which doesn't render very well with tables.

The choices are:

1. **Auto:** Locale default
2. **H11:** Display hours numbered from 0 through 11
3. **H12:** Display hours numbered from 1 through 12 (the most common 12-hour clock)
4. **H23:** Display hours numbered from 0 through 23 (the most common 24-hour clock)
5. **H24:** Display hours numbered from 1 through 24

Typically, locales will display a day period on H11 and H12, but the day period could be any of those allowed by CLDR, such as AM/PM (field "a"), noon/midnight (field "b"), or flexible day periods such as "in the afternoon" (field "B"). The choice could depend on locale, length, and calendar system.

Note: An option could be added in the future to give the developer more control over how day periods are displayed or to disable day periods when there is sufficient context.

##### <a name="Semantic_Skeleton_Fractional_Second_Digits" href="#Semantic_Skeleton_Fractional_Second_Digits">Fractional Second Digits</a>

**Required Field: Second**

**Default Value: Auto**

The _fractional second digits_ option defines how many fractional digits should be displayed in the second field. The choices are:

> 1. **Auto:**Display fractional digits if they are provided in the input. Do not pad with trailing zeros.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. **Auto:** Display fractional digits if they are provided in the input. Do not pad with trailing zeros.
```
Needs space to format right.

| Length | Calendar  | datetimeSkeleton |
|--------|-----------|------------------|
| Long   | Gregorian | yMMMMd           |
| Medium | Gregorian | yMMMd            |
| Short  | Gregorian | yyMd             |
| Long   | Japanese  | GyMMMMd          |
| Medium | Japanese  | GyMMMd           |
| Short  | Japanese  | GGGGGyMd         |

This means that the Year, Month, and Day semantic field mapping in en-US should be:

| Semantic Field | Calendar  | Long   | Medium | Short  |
|----------------|-----------|--------|--------|--------|
| Year           | Gregorian | y      | y      | yy     |
| Month          | Gregorian | MMMM   | MMM    | M      |
| Day            | Gregorian | d      | d      | d      |
| Year           | Japanese  | Gy     | Gy     | GGGGGy |
| Month          | Japanese  | MMMM   | MMM    | M      |
| Day            | Japanese  | d      | d      | d      |

##### <a name="Semantic_Year_Style_Skeleton_Variations" href="#Semantic_Year_Style_Skeleton_Variations">Year Style Skeleton Variations</a>

The [year style](#Semantic_Skeleton_Year_Style) should change the skeleton for all lengths as follows:

> - Auto: No change from datetimeSkeleton

Reviewer: Add a note: the datetimeSkeleton may already be y; and may include G already, subject to locale preferences.

Reviewer: Similar notes elsewhere, just for clarity.
